Welcome back. In the previous lesson,
we have introduced microservice,
MVC Framework and Spring Boot Framework.
I believe now you have a good sense about how to create a simple Spring Boot application.
In this lesson, we're going to learn template engine.
So what is template engine?
Template engine also known as template processor or template parser,
it combines data model with source template to produce result documents,
the result document can be any file type.
Here are some components in template engine flow,
we have data model which can be any data,
it can be data from database, XML, spreadsheet.
The source template can be any file type,
it can be HTML, XML, or XHTML.
The template engine connect to datatype and processing code in source template.
The result document is the result of partial or entire document.
Here's the template engine flow,
you can see that the template engine connect the data and template as the input,
and the output of the template engine is a result document.
Now that you know what template engine is,
I'm going to show you three major template engine in Spring Boot,
which are FreeMarker, Thymeleaf, and JSP.
We're going to focus on Thymeleaf for this lesson,
but I'll still give you a brief introduction on FreeMarker.
We are not going to call it JSP,
because JSP is not well used in Spring Boot applications.
In our next video,
we're going to start learning template engine in Spring Boot and how to use it.